

**EMC SN Publiser 2** is a Tool for the Automatic Generation of
Counterfeit-Proof Serial Numbers for any Production

*I have tried to make this manual as detailed as possible, but maybe I
have made some annoying mistakes and you have faced problems. Please.
write comments to this document specifying where problems have occurred.
I will try to correct the errors and update this document.*

Who is SN Publisher 2 designed for?
-----------------------------------

You are a company that manufactures products and sells them through an
online store. Your products are material ones. Your products are so good
that some people would like to counterfeit them. Buyers bear a risk of
purchasing counterfeit products. As a result, you incur direct and
indirect losses.

So, we suggest using a tool that will help you protect your serial
products. Serial numbers generated by this tool are unique and contain a
cryptographic proof of the fact that they are yours. The verification
code can be posted on your official website, so any buyer will be able
to check the purchased goods only by the serial number. This is a
complete and effective method and it is simpler than it seems.

You need to:

1.  Download and install the latest version of the Emercoin wallet:
    (https://sourceforge.net/projects/emercoin/files or
    <http://emercoin.com/#download> )
2.  Replenish the Emercoin wallet with a number of coins (you can read
    here how to do it - <http://emercoin.com/getstarted#getemercoin>)
3.  Download and install SN Publisher
    <https://github.com/Emercoin/SN-Publisher/blob/master/Emercoin_DPO_SN_Setup/Emercoin_DPO_SN_Setup.msi>

Then you will only need to apply them to your business:

Declare in the public Blockchain that your business exists
----------------------------------------------------------

To do this, you need to create a root record in the Emercoin wallet —a
record of Digital Proof of Ownership (DPO) This record will announce
that your business has now its representative office in the Blockchain.
What do we do? Open the Emercoin wallet (there must be several coins, as
entering any records in the blockchain requires coins)

![](SNP1.png "SNP1.png")

1\) Go to the “Manage Names” tab\
2) In the "name" field, create a record in Latin letters dpo:XXXXX
(where XXXXX is the name of your brand, company, product line, etc. This
part of the record can be created in the national language)\
3) Select the period of validity of this record (from 1 day to 1000
years)\
4) Write there a description of the company, foundation date, contact
information, address, and a URL-link\
There is a rule: the bold values are mandatory, and everything following
the "=" sign can be filled arbitrarily in any language:

Example:

**`Brand`**`=Sirius, Sirius Space Company`\
**`Founded`**`=2016`\
**`Location`**`=Moon`\
**`Tel`**`=+195200001`\
**`url`**`=`[`http://sirius.com`](http://sirius.com)

5\) When everything is ready, click the “Submit” button

The wallet will ask you if you are ready to post the record, tell how
many coins will be spent (approximately 0.06-0.35 EMC). Agree and send
the record about your company. In \~ 10 minutes, the record will be
included in the blockchain and will be publicly available. Now you have
a root DPO record. It will be needed to make the next steps.

You can check it on the website <https://explorer.emercoin.com/dpo/> By
entering the name of your record in the "Brand" field (the XXXXX from
step No. 2)

![](SNP3.png "SNP3.png")

If you do not see the result immediately, you should probably have to
wait a little more, because the time of record publication in the
blockchain varies from 20 seconds to \~ 10-20 minutes.

Attention! If you notice an error in any data at this stage, do not
worry, it can be corrected. Maybe you cannot create a record because
this particular name has already been taken by someone else (for
example, dpo:Raketa, dpo:Sirius)

To correct the error, you need to return to the “Manage Names” tab of
the Emercoin wallet, find the record in the table, click on it two
times, and the record will be transferred to the fields where you
created it. Correct the errors and then switch this element in
NAME\_UPDATE mode

Then click "Submit". The registration of corrections takes approximately
the same time as the creation of a new record, but it costs much less
(0.01 EMC)

After you create a Root DPO record in your wallet, you must post the
name of the record on the official website, as well as the EMC address
to which it is attached. Your serial numbers will be signed by the
cryptographic key of this address and anybody will be able to check and
make sure that they were created by you and are unique!

![](SNP13.png "SNP13.png")

The name and EMC address of the core record are highlighted in red.

Create lists of serial numbers for your products
------------------------------------------------

The SN Publisher utility is intended for automatic entering of serial
numbers into the Emercoin blockchain in accordance with a template from
a table of CSV format (it will soon support the \*.xlsx format)

**Preparation of a CSV table with serial numbers**

1.  Open a Microsoft Excel table and create a new blank page
2.  The first cell (A1) should be named "SN"
3.  The remaining cells of the first row can have arbitrary names, but
    if you need to protect the content of a column with a signature, you
    must enter “F-” before its name (Example: F-Model, F- Shipyard, F-
    "your name")
4.  On the next row, start entering data for the first serial number.

Example:

![](SNP12.png "SNP12.png")

In this table, we see the following: The first row determines the
structure of the serial number. The next rows represent the serial
numbers themselves. The list of serial numbers from SN600-610, the name
of the vessel model is "COBRA MK III", the shipyard to which it is
attributed is called "Kuiper Belt", and the current owner is actually
the fictitious plant "Sirius" Note that the model name and the name of
the person responsible for the series will be protected and cannot be
changed later, but the "Owner" field can be modified. This is done to
ensure that the data about the owner of a particular unit of the product
may be changed in case of sale, transfer, etc. But the data about the
production time, producer, and object characteristics may not be
changed.

1.  When the table is filled, save (import) it into the CSV file format

***Important!** The CSV table must have the sign "," (comma) as a column
separator*

You can verify the correctness of the table if you open it in any simple
text editor (for example, Notepad) and see what sign separates the
columns:

An example of a correct table in a Notepad window:

![](SNP4.png "SNP4.png")

This table will be a template for reserving and signing serial numbers
in the future.

Run and configure SN Publisher
------------------------------

In general, this should be done once. SN Publisher automatically
contacts and launches the Emercoin wallet. It gives it commands to
create, sign, and publish a huge number of records in the blockchain
—the serial numbers associated with your products.

So, we have: 1) An installed Emercoin wallet with a non-zero balance of
EMC coins 2) A root DPO record (for example, dpo:Sirius)

Run the Emercoin DPO SN Publisher. It will automatically launch Emercoin
and try to connect to it.

![](SNP5.png "SNP5.png")

If you launch it for a first time, you will see the following window:

![](SNP6.png "SNP6.png")

You will need to specify the root DPO record. To do this, click the
“Settings” button in SN Publisher, and the following window will open:

![](SNP7.png "SNP7.png")

This window chooses the mode of connecting to the Emercoin wallet. A
local wallet is chosen by default, and this is what we need. Then click
“Next”.

![](SNP8.png "SNP8.png")

In the field "Root DPO Name", enter the name of your root DPO record (in
our example this is dpo:Sirius). You should not enter anything in the
field "Wallet passphrase" if your Emercoin wallet is not protected by a
password. Otherwise, you need to enter the password for your wallet. The
utility will store the password in a protected storage.

Make sure that everything is entered correctly and then click "Finish".
While configuring the connection, the SN Publisher utility may
automatically close and restart the wallet several times.

If everything has gone successfully, after clicking the "Check
connection" button, you will see the following:

![](SNP9.png "SNP9.png")

SN Publisher shows the balance of your wallet as a number of coins and
displays the message "Connected to the wallet successfully". This means
that the configuration was successful and you can go to the last step.

*Note: You may have more than one root DPO record; you will need to
re-configure SN Publisher in order to work with another record*

Entering serial numbers in the blockchain in accordance with a template
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

1\) In SN Publisher use the "Browse…" button to select the CSV file
containing the table of your serial numbers.

If the table has the correct format (with a comma as a separator between
the columns), the number of rows in the table will appear next to the
inscription "Row in the file:" (their number corresponds to the number
of serial numbers you will enter in the blockchain)

2\) In the window "Lifetime of SN record", specify the number of days,
for which your serial numbers will be reserved (by default, 1000 days)
3) By clicking the "Reserve serial number record" button, you start the
process of reserving serial numbers in the blockchain. The utility will
connect with the Emercoin wallet and create records automatically. For
this, EMC coins will be spent (0.06 EMC per record by default). This
process will take some time, which is proportional to the number of
records made. And it will also take from 20 to 50 minutes to confirm all
the published records by the Emercoin network. 4) If you have completed
the operation in step 3) and have made sure that all the records have
been entered in the blockchain, you can proceed to sign the reserved
serial names. This operation is similar to the previous one and will
take the same amount of time. To do this, coins are needed as well (0.01
EMC per record)

How to check whether everything went right?
-------------------------------------------

So, we have created and signed a list of serial numbers. We need to make
sure that everything went right. To do this, go to the website
<https://explorer.emercoin.com/dpo> and enter the following information in
the fields: the name of the root DPO record and any serial number from
the column of our CSV table.

![](SNP11.png "SNP11.png")

The SN201 serial number for the Sirius root record is correct. Thus, you
can create reliably verifiable groups of serial numbers for your
products.

P.S. If this utility does not contain certain functions that are
necessary for solving your problem or if you want to adapt it for your
business, contact us, we can help you with this (support@emercoin.com).
