The Problem
-----------

Bitcoin and its descendants (PPC, QRK, etc) all use the same public web
server to obtain an external IP address. Hardcoded into the client
software were two public servers: <http://checkip.dyndns.org> and
http://www.showmyip.com, but with www.showmyip.com now out of service,
all Bitcoin and altcoin networks are currently dependent on a single
server: checkip.dyndns.org. If this server fails, then coin networks
that rely on it will suffer a dramatic loss of stability. Stability will
be lost because peers won't be able to advertise themselves to other
peers in the P2P network, and overall network connectivity will be
significantly decreased.

Furthermore, this mechanism for obtaining an external IP is based on a
non-standardized text protocol designed for human readability. If the
site owners happen to modify their output (perhaps, for better
readability) then all reliant networks would be unable to parse and
understand replies. Results in this case would be the same as if the
server was nonexistent.

In addition, the hardcoded request has a distinct signature and is well
known and dyndns.org's owners could theoretically analyze their server
logs and collect a list of the IP addresses of all peers who are running
coin wallets. Users often run their wallet software just before sending
transactions, meaning that an analyst could easily correlate wallet
start with transaction time and associate it with an IP address. This is
a serious compromise of users privacy.

The problem is discussed in the cryptocurrency community but without any
positive outcome until now. For example,
[here](http://www.reddit.com/r/Bitcoin/comments/29zx7z/bitcoin_core_uses_showmyip_as_a_centralized_hard/).

The Emercoin solution
---------------------

Emercoin substituted the non-standard mechanism employed by Bitcoin and
other altcoins with a mature standard, [RFC5389
(STUN)](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/STUN), that has been designed
specifically for this kind of use case. STUN is a lightweight UDP-based
protocol that has been used successfully in SIP-based applications
(VOIP, IP-video) for over 10 years. Since STUN is standardized, we can
use a much larger list of servers to request our external IP, and always
be sure that the Emercoin wallet can understand the answer.

At time of writing, the latest Emercoin wallet chooses at random from
263 geographically distributed redundant STUN servers to obtain its
external IP address. Therefore, nobody can collect a significant list of
users. Additionally, the wallet includes measures to randomize the
signature of the request, making it difficult to distinguish an Emercoin
wallet request from any other sent by an IP phone or softswitch.

For the first time in cryptocurrency history, the STUN protocol is being
used instead of a non-standard web service. We are glad to have removed
this unnecessary dependency on a centralized server which in turn will
provide increased network stability and improved privacy for all
Emercoin users.
